So yes, before we go on and
move on to our next project,
I just want to wrap up and
talk about a couple more aspects of
iteration that we didn't need
to complete our quiz project,
but we might find very useful for
our next project.
So while we're on the topic of loops and
of iterating over things,
especially arrays,
have a couple of handy dandy methods
that are also very useful for,
Looping over or processing,
in a sense, every item in an array.
And those are map and filter.
And there's also another method, reduce,
we're not gonna talk about here.
But basically, what these methods do, and
map and filter or
kind of like go hand in hand,
they allow us to process every item in the
array by calling a certain function on it.
So what filter's job is if
I give filter an array of
let's say ingredients,
filter can help me filter
out the ingredients I don't
want from that array.
And then what map does is it applies
some kind of operation to everything
in that array.
So if I filter out the ingredients I
don't, like let's say I wanna make
a sandwich but I don't want any cucumbers
in it and I don't want any onions in it.
I can use filter to filter out
the things I don't like, and
then I can use map to do something
to each of the things that are left.
In this case,
maybe I have a chop function.
And so I can chop up all of
my remaining ingredients.
And then we're not gonna
talk about reduce, but
reduce is something that kind of
combines everything in an array.
So, that's how I could make all of
my ingredients that I've chopped
up into a sandwich, let's say.
We get more into this in functional
programming first steps,
if you continue on to that.
But for now,
let's take a look at map and filter.
So map takes in some array and
some function that we give it,
and it calls that function
on each item in the array.
And then what it does is instead
of mutating the original array,
it gives me a new array with
the result of the function
call on each item in the original array.
So if we go back to our, remember our
spices object with all of our Spice Girls?
We have an array of objects and
each object has some properties in it.
I could use map to get a new
array of just the nicknames
of these spices by calling
map on the spices array and
passing in a function, and
I've got my little arrow friend here.
That takes in a spice, which I'm
assigning a mini-variable to here, s,
and returns a string that is the nickname
property of that s
object plus space Spice.
So my new array, if I go back and
I run this code,
my nicknames array is going to be
just strings that were computed
from all of the object
values in my spices array.
And spices, we can double-check,
has not changed, not mutated.
So map is really useful when let's
say you have a bunch of objects,
a bunch of data, and you'll only really
care about some subset of that data.
Map can be a really useful way to pull out
the data that you care about, for example.
It could also carry out
some other operation.
It could do some calculation on
each element in the array, or
it could log something about
each element in the array.
So it's another way of kind of
looping over arrays when we wanna
call a particular function
on each thing and
maybe we wanna capture those
values as a new array.
So arrow functions are really useful.
You can pass in a function,
keyword, expression, or
maybe some other function you've saved
as a variable elsewhere in your program.
You can pass in any kind of
function to the map method, but
arrow functions show up a lot.
So you'll see this pattern very often, map
and then an arrow function over an array.
Another useful trick,
cuz we're learning some new skills here,
another useful trick, especially if
we're doing stringy stuff like this,
are what are called
string template literals.
So if you remember way back a million
years ago when we talked about different
strings in JavaScript,
we said that strings can be surrounded
by three different types of punctuation.
Can anybody help me remember?
We have, let me clear here.
We've been doing a lot of strings
that look like surrounded by-
>> Double quotes.
>> Double quotes,
we could also do single quotes,
and we can also do backticks.
So all of these, and you'll see
JavaScript's default is double quotes.
So when it's printing out or kind of
evaluating, these are all showing me
double quotes around them, but
they're all the same thing to JavaScript.
But what's fun about the backticks
is that the backticks
actually allow us to insert,
or fancy word, interpolate,
different variables or
other values inside of a string.
So for example, let's say
I wanna say the sum of 1 and 2 is,
I can use a $ sign and
then some curly braces.
And now within these curly braces,
I can write JavaScript.
So I can do, for example,
1+2 inside of those curly braces and
JavaScript is going to evaluate that and
then stick that value
inside of the string.
So I get the sum of 1 and 2 is 3.
Pretty cool,
pretty nifty little trick here.
And so, what you see that pop up a lot in
things like if I'm processing elements,
let's say here,
I was trying to d a string,
trying to create a new string
from all of these values.
Earlier we did this with a plus, totally
valid, totally valid, a plus and a space.
I could also do this by creating a string
template here with these backticks and
then using my dollar sign curly
braces to insert the Spice Girl
nickname into that string template,
as it were.
So, for example, we could do,
let spices 2 is spices.map, and
then I pass in my templatey version.
Oops, what did I do?
>> Space between the spices and 2.
>> Yes I did, okay, great, sorry.
[LAUGH] Thanks.
Yep, and JavaScript's like
I don't know what that is.
Okay, now let's try spices2.
It's the same, it looks the same as before
when we use our concatenate operator.
So this is a fun little trick,
that you can sprinkle in,
like a little spice on your
JavaScript programs if you get
sick of writing plus signs,
plusing with spaces everywhere.
So okay, then the other one or
the other friend of map that
we said we have is filter,
which is essentially going to, we're
gonna give it a special type of function.
The function that we give filter is a
function that should return true or false,
or you sometimes hear that
called a predicate function.
Like, for example, our is correct
function was an example of this.
And what filter is gonna do is it's
gonna call that function on every item.
And if the function returns true,
it's going to include that item in
the new array that it gives you.
And if the function returns false,
that item gets filtered out,
it gets left out of the resulting array.
So, for example, In my spices,
I have a bunch of Spice Girls and
two of them are named Mel.
So if I want to get just the Mels,
I can call spices.filter and
then pass in a function that
takes some spice girl s.
Looks at the s.name value,
which is gonna be a string.
And then, if you remember, we have
a special string method called includes,
which can tell me if a string
includes some other substring.
So if the value of s.name
includes the substring Mel,
then we're going to include
it in that new array.
And so now if I ask for Mels,
we can see it has two things in it,
it has only the objects for
the Spice Girls named Mel.
Which is probably a very common JavaScript
program you might need to write,
but you get the idea.
And filtering is very
useful when you're trying,
when you're only interested in
a subset of your data, let's say.
Maybe you're getting some data from
somewhere and whoever made that data
cares about a lot of stuff, but
you only care about a little bit of stuff.
You can filter out the elements in
that array that you don't care about.